B
 EVOLUTION OF PMI’S PRACTICE STANDARD FOR 
PROJECT RISK MANAGEMENT 
 B.1 Pre-Project 
 In early 2005, PMI began exploration for developing the ﬁ rst Practice Standard for Project Risk Management. 
Focus would be placed on single project risk management for a single project rather than including programs 
or portfolios of projects, with close coupling to the Project Risk Management section of  A Guide to the Project 
Management Body of Knowledge  (PMBOK ®  Guide) –  Third Edition. By April 20, 2006, the PMI Standards 
Members Advisory Group (MAG) approved the following ﬁ nal charter for the standard, with Cynthia A. Berg, 
PMP, as the Project Manager, and Dr. David Hulett as the Deputy Project Manager. The charter included the 
following characteristics for the standard: 
  Provides information on Project Risk Management that includes information that is clear, complete, 
• 
relevant, and generally recognized as good practice on most projects most of the time. 
  Is consistent with the  
• 
PMBOK ®  Guide –  Third Edition, expanding but not contradicting, the concepts 
and techniques related to Project Risk Management, and keeps within the limits and practices of 
Project Risk Management as described within Chapter 11 of the  PMBOK ®  Guide– Third Edition. 
  Has been reviewed and updated by the Practice Standard for Project Risk Management 
• 
Project Team. 
  Is written for project management practitioners and other stakeholders of the project management 
• 
profession. 
 Describes the processes that are unique to Project Risk Management. 
• 
  Includes in an appendix, examples and templates of speciﬁ c Project Risk Management processes, 
• 
tools, and/or techniques addressed in the practice standard, with discussions of their strengths and 
weaknesses, including background descriptions that put the relative strengths and weaknesses into 
context. 
 Uses the  
• 
PMBOK ®  Guide –  Third Edition Glossary as the starting point of its glossary, and does not 
contain contradictions. 
 Uses a glossary term in the text without deﬁ nition or additional explanation. 
• 
 Is aligned with and does not contradict other PMI standards. 
• 
  Follows the PMI Style Guide, is written in North American English, translatable to PMI ofﬁ cial 
• 
languages, and is sensitive to cultural issues. 

B
  Can be approved as a PMI standard, which means that in addition to the content being acceptable, 
• 
the process for selecting team members and soliciting and responding to comments on the product 
must be open and inclusive. 
 B.2 Preliminary Work 
 In recognition that risk management is not practiced well on many projects, the project team set out to 
identify practices that are viewed as best practices, as those are understood, and applied in most successfully 
managed projects most of the time. 
 The project core team was initially formed in the fall of 2005 and consisted of; Dr. David Hillson PMP, Kik 
Piney, and Kris Persun. 
 B.3 Scope Changes 
 During the time the project was chartered, the  PMBOK ®  Guide –  Fourth Edition was commissioned. As a 
result, the charter of the Practice Standard for Project Risk Management was expanded to be consistent and 
non-contradictory with that standard. 
 B.4 Exposure and Consensus 
 The standard was submitted as an exposure draft in the winter of 2007, and exposed on 23 March 2008. 
There were 849 comments. The team’s comment acceptance rate (comments accepted outright, and accepted 
with modiﬁ cations) was 57%. The PMI Standards Manager submitted the resultant ﬁ nal draft, with the 
concurrence of the PMI Standards  Program MAG, to the PMI Standards Program Consensus Body for ofﬁ cial 
ballot on 27 March 2009 . Twenty-eight members of the PMI Standards Program Consensus Body agreed to 
participate in the ballot of the Practice Standard for Project Risk Management. Those not participating included 
the PM and Deputy PM for this standard because their participation was considered a conﬂ ict of interest. The 
balloting period was closed on 25 April 2009 with 23 ballots returned. Consensus Body voting results were 
as follows: 22 afﬁ rmative and 1 afﬁ rmative with comment. The afﬁ rmative with comment pertained to future 
revisions of the standard and possible improvements to the comment adjudication process.

C
 APPENDIX C 
 CONTRIBUTORS AND REVIEWERS OF THE  PRACTICE STANDARD 
FOR PROJECT RISK MANAGEMENT 
 This appendix lists, alphabetically within groupings, those individuals who have contributed to the 
development and production of the  Practice Standard for Project Risk Management . No simple list or even 
multiple lists can adequately convey all the contributions of those who have volunteered to develop the  Practice 
Standard for Project Risk Management . 
 The Project Management Institute is grateful to all of these individuals for their support and acknowledges 
their contributions to the project management profession. 
 C.1  Practice Standard for Project Risk Management Project Core Team 
 The following individuals served as members, were contributors of text or concepts, and served as leaders 
within the Project Core Team (PCT): 
 Cynthia Ann Berg, PhD, PMP Project Manager 
 David T. Hulett, PhD, Deputy Project Manager 
 Dr. David Hillson FRSA, FIRM 
 Kristine Persun, MA, PMP 
 Crispin “Kik” Piney, BSc, PMP 
 Kristin L. Vitello, Standards Project Specialist 
 Nan Wolfslayer, AStd, Standards Compliance Specialist 
 C.2 Signiﬁ cant Contributors 
 In addition to the members of the Project Core Team and the Sub-Team Leaders, the following individuals 
provided signiﬁ cant input or concepts: 
 Jeannette Horne 

